To capitalize on these twin talents, and to
accommodate Jeffrey’s desire for promotion,
Michelle shuffled the roles within the store
once again. She split Jeffrey’s reset and revision
job in two and gave the “revision” part of it to

Genoa so that the whole store could now bene-
fit from her ability to arrange merchandise at-
tractively. But Michelle didn’t want the store to

miss out on Genoa’s gift for customer service,
so Michelle asked her to focus on the revision
role only between 8:30 AM and 11 AM, and after

that, when the store began to fill with custom-
ers on their lunch breaks, Genoa should shift

her focus over to them.

She kept the reset role with Jeffrey. Assis-
tant managers don’t usually have an ongoing

responsibility in the store, but, Michelle rea-
soned, he was now so good and so fast at tear-
ing an aisle apart and rebuilding it that he

could easily finish a major reset during a five-
hour stint, so he could handle resets along with

his managerial responsibilities.
By the time you read this, the Jeffrey–

Genoa configuration has probably outlived its

usefulness, and Michelle has moved on to de-
sign other effective and inventive configura-
tions. The ability to keep tweaking roles to cap-
italize on the uniqueness of each person is the

essence of great management.

A manager’s approach to capitalizing on dif-
ferences can vary tremendously from place to

place. Walk into the back office at another Wal-
greens, this one in San Jose, California, man-
aged by Jim Kawashima, and you won’t see a

single work schedule. Instead, the walls are
covered with sales figures and statistics, the
best of them circled with red felt-tip pen, and

dozens of photographs of sales contest win-
ners, most featuring a customer service repre-
sentative named Manjit.

Manjit outperforms her peers consistently.
When I first heard about her, she had just won
a competition in Walgreens’ suggestive selling

program to sell the most units of Gillette de-
odorant in a month. The national average was

300; Manjit had sold 1,600. Disposable cam-
eras, toothpaste, batteries—you name it, she

could sell it. And Manjit won contest after con-
test despite working the graveyard shift, from

12:30 AM to 8:30 AM, during which she met sig-
nificantly fewer customers than did her peers.

Manjit hadn’t always been such an excep-
tional performer. She became stunningly suc-
The Research

To gather the raw material for my book The

One Thing You Need to Know: About Great Man-
aging, Great Leading, and Sustained Individual

Success, from which this article has been
adapted, I chose an approach that is rather
different from the one I used for my previous
books. For 17 years, I had the good fortune to
work with the Gallup Organization, one of
the most respected research firms in the

world. During that time, I was given the op-
portunity to interview some of the world’s

best leaders, managers, teachers, salespeo-
ple, stockbrokers, lawyers, and public ser-
vants. These interviews were a part of large-
scale studies that involved surveying groups

of people in the hopes of finding broad pat-
terns in the data. For my book, I used this

foundation as the jumping-off point for
deeper, more individualized research.
In each of the three areas targeted in the

book—managing, leading, and sustained in-
dividual success—I first identified one or two

people in various roles and fields who had
measurably, consistently, and dramatically
outperformed their peers. These individuals

included Myrtle Potter, president of commer-
cial operations for Genentech, who trans-
formed a failing drug into the highest selling

prescription drug in the world; Sir Terry

Leahy, the president of the European retail-
ing giant Tesco; Manjit, the customer service

representative from Jim Kawashima’s top-
performing Walgreens store in San Jose, Cali-
fornia, who sold more than 1,600 units of

Gillette deodorant in one month; and David
Koepp, the prolific screenwriter who penned
such blockbusters as Jurassic Park, Mission:
Impossible, and Spider-Man.
What interested me about these high
achievers was the practical, seemingly banal

details of their actions and their choices. Why

did Myrtle Potter repeatedly turn down pro-
motions before taking on the challenge of

turning around that failing drug? Why did
Terry Leahy rely more on the memories of his

working-class upbringing to define his com-
pany’s strategy than on the results of cus-
tomer surveys or focus groups? Manjit works

the night shift, and one of her hobbies is
weight lifting. Are those factors relevant to
her performance? What were these special
people doing that made them so very good at
their roles?
Once these many details were duly noted
and recorded, they slowly came together to
reveal the “one thing” at the core of great

managing, great leading, and sustained indi-
vidual success.
