First, by the mid-1980s Korean consumers
were more sophisticated than they had been
during the 1960s and 1970s, and were increasingly
aware of and demanding higher quality
products. Also, the rising standard of living
increased the ability of Koreans to afford
higher quality products and services. Most
Korean consumers were no longer happy with
low quality, even if it did come at a low price.
Second, under international pressure, the
Korean government began to relax trade barriers
that made it easier for foreign companies to
compete with LG in Korea. In many cases, these
foreign companies had significantly higher
product quality and features and, because of
lower trade barriers, were increasingly price
competitive with domestic Korean companies.
This was extremely important given that a vast
majority of LG revenues came from domestic
sales (approximately 70 per cent in 1980).
Third, the cost competitiveness of Korean
companies began to slip. As wage rates increased
in Korea, low cost labor began to erode as a
source of comparative advantage. In addition,
other countries, such as China, had significantly
lower labor costs and were also coming up the
technology curve. Consequently, competitors in
developing Asian countries were quickly pushing
LG out of its traditional low cost position.
For example, Chinese companies were increasingly
able to produce consumer electronics
(such as fans) that, while not technically sophisticated,
were reasonably reliable and significantly
cheaper, allowing them to under-price
and out-position Korean competitors.
By the mid-to-late 1980s, these external
changes started showing up in LG’s financial
performance. Between 1986 and 1987, sales
dropped by US$1 billion (about a seven per
cent decline) and profits fell by 18 per cent.
Refurbishing the Ship
Although the ship was not in any real danger
of sinking, LG was listing badly and taking on
water. It needed some serious refurbishing and
restructuring. It was unthinkable for the aging
Chairman, Cha-Kyung Koo, to hand over the
helm until the ship was righted. To assist in
turning LG around, Chairman Koo retained
McKinsey & Co. as an advisor and undertook
an extensive internal audit.
Given the environmental shifts, it was clear
that LG had to become a value rather than a low
cost player. This meant that customers, rather
than low cost, had to become the dominant
force in company decisions. But, what did customers
really want? How did they use LG’s products?
What did they expect in terms of product
reliability or service? These types of questions
began to dominate LG and put customers at the
center of its new strategic philosophy.
It was also clear that LG had to change its
decision-making style. Like many Korean organizations,
LG had a history of relatively centralized
decision making and a top-down
management process. This worked fine as long
as the organization was small enough for top
management to know everything that was
going on and as long as the marketplace was
fairly homogeneous. However, by the late-
1980s LG had become a huge organization with
revenues approaching US$20 billion and over
80,000 employees. Furthermore, whereas early
in its history LG had been primarily focused on
the domestic Korean market, increasingly it
focused more on international markets. These
markets and their customers often differed, not
only from Korean markets and customers, but
from each other as well. Consequently, it was
impossible for top managers to know everything
that was going on in such a large organization
and across such diverse markets and
customers. LG’s management approach had to
become more decentralized and more participative
in nature. Decisions needed to be pushed
down to where the action was.
The new management approach was implemented
and was typically referred to in LG as
“management by self-control.” It allowed for
much greater autonomy than had ever existed
in the Group. Although most managers
welcomed the opportunity for greater decision-
making autonomy, many lacked experience
with it. These managers had to change
their mind set from flawlessly executing orders
to determining strategic direction.
